in the last video we gave a mathematical
definition of how to represent for how
to compute the hypothesis used by a
neural network in this video I'd like to
show you how to actually carry out that
computation efficiently and that is show
you a vectorized implementation and
second and more importantly I want to
start giving you intuition about why
these neural network representations
might be a good idea and how they can
help us to learn complex nonlinear
hypotheses consider this neural network
previously we said that the sequence of
steps we need in order to compute the
output of a hypothesis is these
equations given on the left where we
compute the activation values of the
three hidden units and then we use those
to compute the final output of the
hypothesis H of X now I'm going to
define a few extra terms so this term
that I'm underlining here I'm going to
define that to be Z superscript 2
subscript 1 so that we have that a 2 1
which is this term is equal to G of Z 2
1 and by the way these superscript 2 you
know what that means is that the Z 2 and
this a 2 as well the superscript 2 in
parentheses means that these are values
associated with layer 2 that is what the
hidden layer in the neural network now
on this term here I'm going to similarly
define as Z 2 2 so and finally this last
term here the underlining then we define
that as Z 2 3 so that similarly we have
a 2 3 equals G of Z 2
so these are Z values are just a linear
combination weighted linear combination
of the input values x0 x1 x2 x3 that go
into a particular neuron now if you look
at this block of numbers you may notice
that that block of numbers corresponds
suspiciously similar to the matrix
vector operation matrix vector
multiplication of x1 times the vector X
using this observation we're going to be
able to vectorize this computation of
the neural network concretely let's
define the feature vector X as usual to
be the vector of X 0 X 1 X 2 X 3 where X
0 as usual is always equal to 1 and
let's define Z 2 to be the vector of
these Z values of Z 2 1 Z 2 2 Z 2 3
notice that there z 2 this is a three
dimensional vector we can now vectorize
the computation of a21 a.22 a23 as
follows we can just write this in two
steps we can compute Z 2 as theta 1
times X and that would give us this
vector Z 2 and then a 2 is G of Z 2 and
just be clear and Z 2 here this is a 3
dimensional vector and a 2 is also a 3
dimensional vector and thus this
activation G this applies the sigmoid
function element-wise to each of Z 2 s
about elements and by the way to make
our notation a little more consistent
with what we'll do later in this input
layer we have the inputs X but we can
also think of this as the activations of
the first layer so if I define a 1 to be
equal to X so the a 1 is a vector I can
now take this X here and replace this
with Z 2 equals theta 1 times a 1 just
by defining a
to be activations in my input layer now
with what I've written so far I have now
gotten myself the values for a1 a2 a3
and really I should put the superscripts
there as well but I need one more value
which is I also want this a 0 2 and that
corresponds to a bias unit in the hidden
layer that goes to the upper layer of
course there was advise you in here to
them you know I just didn't draw under
in here
but to take care of this extra bias unit
what we're going to do is add an extra
a0 superscript 2 that is equal to 1 and
after taking the step we now have that
a2 is going to be a 4 dimensional
feature vector because we just added
this extra you know a 0 which is equal
to 1 corresponding to the bias unit in
the hidden layer and finally to compute
the actual value output of our
hypotheses we then simply need to
compute Z 3 so Z 3 is equal to this term
here that I'm just underlining this
inner term here is Z 3 and Z 3 is theta
2 times a 2 and finally my hypothesis
outputs H of X which is a 3 that's a
deactivation of my one and only unit in
the upper layer so that's just real
number you can read in this a 3 or a 3 1
and that's G of Z 3 this process of
computing H of X is also called
forward propagation and is called that
because we spawn off with the
activations of the input units and then
we sort of forward propagate that to the
hidden layer and computing activations
of hidden layer and then we sort of
forward propagate that and compute the
activations of the output layer but this
process of computing the activations
the input and hidden then the upper
layer is also called for propagation and
what we just did was we worked out a
vectorized implementation of this
procedure so if you implement it using
these equations and we have on the right
this will give you an efficient way a
relatively efficient way of computing H
of X this forward propagation view also
helps us understand what neural networks
might be doing and why they might help
us to learn interesting nonlinear
hypotheses
consider the following in your network
and let's say I cover up the left part
of this picture for now if you look at
what's left in this picture this looks a
lot like logistic regression where what
we're doing is we're using that node
that's just a logistic regression unit
and we're using that to make a
prediction in H of X and concretely what
the hypothesis is outputting is H of X
is going to be equal to G which is my
sigmoid activation function times theta
0 times a0 is equal 1 plus theta 1 plus
theta 2 times a2 plus theta 3 times a3
where the values a 1 a 2 a 3 are those
given by these 3 in the units now to be
actually curve consistent with our
earlier notation actually we need to
throw in the superscript twos here
I guess need to phone the superscript
twos everywhere and I also have these
indices 1 there
because I have only one of the unit but
if you focus on the blue parts of the
notation this is here this looks awfully
like the standard logistic regression
model except I now have a capital theta
into the lowercase data but um and what
this is doing is it's just logistic
regression but where the features get
into logistic regression are these
values computed by the hidden layer just
to say that again
what does neural network is doing is is
just like logistic regression except
that rather than using the original
features x1 x2 x3 is using these new
features a1 a2 a3 the gain put put
superscript there to be consistent with
notation and the cool thing about this
is that the features a1 a2 a3 they
themselves are learned as functions of
the input concretely the function
mapping from layer 1 to layer 2 that is
determined by some other set of
parameters theta 1 so as as if the
neural network instead of being
constrained to feed the features x1 x2
x3 2 interest regression it gets to
learn its own features a1 a2 a3 to feed
into logistic regression and as you can
imagine depending on what parameters it
chooses for theta1 you can learn some
pretty interesting and complex features
and therefore you can end up with a
better hypothesis then if you were
constrained to use the raw features x1
x2 x3 or if you were constrained to say
choose the polynomial term 0 X 1 X 2 X 2
X 3 and so on but instead this algorithm
has the flexibility to try to learn
whatever features at once using these a
1 a 2 a 3 in order to feed into this
loss unit in that that's essentially a
logistic regression
I realize this example is described in a
somewhat high level and so I'm not sure
if this intuition of the neural network
you know having more complex features
will quite make sense yet but if it
doesn't yet in the next two videos I'm
going to go through a specific example
of how a neural network can use this
hidden layer to compute more complex
features to feed into this final output
layer and how that can learn more
complex hypotheses so in case what I'm
saying here doesn't quite make sense
stick with me for the next two videos
and hopefully after working through
those examples this explanation will
make a little bit more sense but just to
point out you can have neural networks
with other types of diagrams as well and
the way that neural networks are
connected that's called the architecture
so the term architecture refers to how
the different neurons are connected to
each other this is a an example of a
different neural network architecture
and once again you may be able to get
this intuition of how the second layer
here we have three hidden units that are
computing some complex function maybe of
the input layer and then the third layer
can take the second layer of features
and compute even more complex features
in layer 3 so that by the time you get
to the upper layer therefore you can
have fun you know even more complex
features of what you are able to compute
in layer 3 and so get very interesting
nonlinear hypotheses by the way in a
network like this layer 1 this is called
an input layer layer 4 is still upper
layer and this network has two hidden
layers so anything does not a input
layer or an upper layer is called
anything there
so hopefully from this video you've got
to the sense of how the feed-forward
propagation step in the neural network
works where you start from the
activations of the input layer and for
propagate that to the first in there
then the second hidden there and then
finally the output layer and you also
saw how we can vectorize that
computation in the NICS I realized that
some of the intuitions in this video of
how the other certain layers are
computing complex features of the early
layers I realize some of that intuition
may be still slightly abstract and kind
of at a high level and so what I'd like
to do in the next two videos is work
through a detailed example of how a
neural network can be used to compute
nonlinear functions of the input and
hopefully now give you a good sense of
the sorts of complex nonlinear
hypotheses we can get out of neural
networks